---
layout: post
title: Angular学习笔记
---

**Decorator**
修饰器是一个对类进行处理的函数。修饰器函数的第一个参数，就是所要修饰的目标类。
* Decorators are a new feature of TypeScript.
* With decorators we can customise our classes at design time.
* They are just functions that add meta-data to the thing they are attached to.
* Ts中的decorator：
  1. Class decorators
  2. Property decorators
  3. Method decorators
  4. Parameter decorators
* Angular2重的decorator：
  1. Class: @componnet @Ngmodule @Pipe @Injectable
  2. Property: @Input @Output @ContentChild @ContentCildren @ViewChild @ViewChildren
  3. Method: @HostListener
  4. Parameter: @Inject @Optional @Self @SkipSelf @Host

**@NgModule**
* The NgModule classes differ from JavaScript module in the following key ways:
  * An NgModule bounds declarable classes only. Declarables are the only classes that matter to the Angular compiler.
  * Instead of defining all member classes in one giant file as in a JavaScript module, you list the module's classes in the @NgModule.declarations list.
  * An NgModule can only export the declarable classes it owns or imports from other modules. It doesn't declare or export any other kind of class.
  * Unlike JavaScript modules, an NgModule can extend the entire application with services by adding providers to the @NgModule.providers list.
* API
  * declarations—this application's lone component.The declarations array only takes declarables. Declarables are components, directives and pipes.
  * imports—import BrowserModule to have browser specific services such as DOM rendering, sanitization, and location.
  * exports makes the components,directives, and pipes available in modules that add this module to imports.
  * providers—the service providers.
  * bootstrap—the root component that Angular creates and inserts into the index.html host web page.

**Components**
* An Angular application is a Tree of components.
* Each component has some Inputs and Outputs.
* Components are composable
* API: encapsulation(
  * ViewEncapsulation.Native(isolated from the global styles/not supported by all browsers.)
  * ViewEncapsulation.Emulated
  * ViewEncapsulation.None(as a global style)
  * @input/@output 
)

**Directives**
* NgFor 
* Ngid & NgSwitch
* NgStyle & NgClass
* NgNonBindable

**@components vs @directives**
  Write a component when you want to create a reusable set of DOM elements of UI with custom behaviour. Write a directive when you want to write reusable behaviour to supplement existing DOM elements.

**when to use ngoninit & constructor**


**LifecycleHooks**
{ constructor (获取不到input )}
{ ngOnChanges _(触发改变? called whenever one or more date-bound input properties change)_ }
{ ngOnInit _(only called once)_}
{ ngDoCheck _(脏检查完成?)_ :
  ngAfterContentInit,
  ngAfterContentChecked,
  ngAfterViewInit,
  ngAfterViewChecked
}
{ ngOnDestroy _(before destroys the component, detach event handlers to avoid memory leaks)_ }

**组件通信**
* passing the reference of one component to another
* communication through parent component
* communication through service
* EventEmitter

(**diff between interface & type**)[https://stackoverflow.com/questions/37233735/typescript-interfaces-vs-types]
Unlike an interface declaration, which always introduces a named object type, a type alias declaration can introduce a name for any kind of type, including primitive, union, and intersection types.
 * capability(
    1. An interface can be named in an extends or implements clause, but a type alias for an object type literal cannot.
    2. An interface can have multiple merged declarations, but a type alias for an object type literal cannot.

 )

**implements vs extends**
* _extends_: the new class is a child. it gets benefits coming with inheritance. it has all properties, methods as its parent. it can override some of these and implement new, but the parent stuff already included.

* _implements_: the new class can be treated as the same 'shape'?, while it is not a child. it could be passed to any method where the Person is required, regardless of having different parent then person.

**services**
Service is a broad category encompassing any value, function, or feature that an app needs.

**Dependency Injection**
DI is wired into the Angular framework and used everywhere to provide new components with the services or other things they need.

**Provide scope**
[refs](https://itnext.io/understanding-provider-scope-in-angular-4c2589de5bc)
1. 如果你有好几个module同时使用了同一个service。最后一个被加入到provide的才会被加入到root injector.
2. 如果你有好几个module同时用了同一个service并且这个service也被加入到了AppModule（root module）中，只有AppModule中创建的实例会被加到root injector中。即使是child module使用的也是root module中的service实例。
3. 如果你有一个lazy module并没有提供一个service，它会使用root injector中的service实例。
4. 但如果你的lazyModule有一个属于自己的service，那这个module中只会使用自己本地的service实例（而不是root injector）

**private in class**

**observable vs promises**
* 1.Obs is more powerful to handling HTTP asynchronous requests. A promise handles a single event and operation completes or fails.
* 2.An Objs like a stream which allows passing zero or more events where the callback is called for each event. A promise eventually calls the success or failed callback even when you don't need the notification or the result it provides anymore. 
* 3.Obs works with multiple values for a particular time. Promises works with single value at a time.
* 4.Obs can be canceled. Promise can't.
* 5.Objs can 'retry' whenever needed. Promise can't.

**functionality of Angular Core**

**Karma+Jasmine**

**打包原理**

**spring-boot**

**pipe & let**
The pipe method is for chaining observable operators, and the subscribe is for activating the observable and listening for emitted values.

pipe: we can easily compose a bunch of pure function operators and pass them as a single operator to an observable!
let: easy to build custom operators
https://blog.hackages.io/rxjs-5-5-piping-all-the-things-9d469d1b3f44

**Dollar sign**
Please note the dollar sign. Using the dollar sign in the name of a variable that is an observable, is considered best practice. This way it’s easy to identify if your variable is an observable or not.
https://medium.com/@luukgruijs/understanding-creating-and-subscribing-to-observables-in-angular-426dbf0b04a3